Greenwood was a thriving black community in Tulsa, Oklahoma, with many
professionals, including attorney and newspaper columnist Richie J. Hill, a
zealous servant of Jehovah. In May of 1921, Tulsa, Oklahoma became the site of
one of the worst race massacres in the United States history. Hundreds of
armed men invaded Greenwood. They beaten kill many black citizens. It was a
massacre. Arthur Klaus was another faithful brother there in Tulsa. When he
heard about the violence, he became very concerned about his good friend, Richard
Hill, who was living in Greenwood. So brother Klaus went to brother Hill's home
to check on but brother Klaus found an armed neighbor protecting his home. He
thought that brother Klaus was another stranger coming there. Brother Klaus
immediately identified himself. He explained that he was a friend of Richard
Hill's and he was looking for him to try to help him and that's when he was told
that many of the black people in that area had been taken to the convention
home. So brother Klaus headed back into downtown Tulsa. The National Guard had
been called in and had placed General Barrett in charge and he decided that no
black person could leave the convention hall without a signed order. So brother
Klaus patiently waited to see the general and explained that he just wanted to
help his friend. After brother Klaus agreed to be responsible for the family
the general signed the order. But then brother Klaus had to walk through a
mob of armed white men to getting to the convention hall. It happened to be
the same location that just two nights before Judge Rutherford had
delivered the talk. Millions now living will never die. But brother Klaus
courageously walked up to the guard, handed him to sign order and was let in.
Now the auditorium was filled with black people who must have been very positive
to see a white man. But brother Klaus calmly walked through the crowd, met brother
Hill and his family and took them back to their home. In the auditorium brother
Klaus overheard people say, now look at that. They're the only religious group to
go to the general and get a release for their people. You know we're in the
wrong religion I'm thinking. Brother Klaus showed patience and discernment and he
was able to help a brother in danger. And in his weekly newspaper column brother
Hill continued to echo the message of brother Rutherford's talk that God's
kingdom is the solution to all of the world's problems including mob balance.